IT 386 – Programming Assignment
In this assignment, you will work in pairs, where one team member can run the UDP server on the
bur.ad.ilstu.edu IT Linux terminal, and the other team member can run the UDP client on the
ash.ad.ilstu.edu, for example.
You will implement a client-server application using UDP, like the application we did in class using TCP.
Your client-server application will do the following:
• client reads a line of characters (message) from its keyboard and sends data to server.
• server receives the data and converts characters to uppercase.
• server sends modified data to client as well as the name of the server.
• To get the name of the server, you can use the following command:
InetAddress.getLocalHost().getHostName(); which will return a string
containing the name of the computer (host) you are using
• client receives modified data and prints the message on its screen.
Create two classes, one named ClientUDP.java where you will implement the client side of your
application, and the other class named ServerUDP.java. when you will implement the server side.
• The port number and hostname should be input as argument input when running your code.
• Comment and indent your code properly.
• Add a comment at the beginning of your code with team member’s name.
The finalized application should show the communication between Client and Server. The Client UDP
sends a sentence to the server UDP, and the server UDP receives the message, and sends a modified
sentence back to the Client UDP, which receives and prints to the screen.
Compiling and Running (open a terminal)
o Team member 1: Compile and run ServerUDP with port number of your choice.
o Team member 2: Compile and run the ClientUDP with hostname (machine where ServerUDP is
running) and port number where the ServerUDP is listening.
o Each team member takes a screenshot of their terminal operation showing successful interaction with
the client and the server. The message sent to the client should contain the team member’s name.
Resources:
https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/networking/sockets/index.html
https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/net/package-summary.html
Submission Guidelines on Canvas.
Attach a Word document with both team members’ names, the course, and the screenshots of the terminal
operation described above.
Attach the ServerUDP.java and ClientUDP.java to the submission as well.
Note: Both team members should submit the same assignment
